gh-122767: document "new style" formatting for complexes (#122848)
python/cpython: Doc/library/string.rst

   |         | as altered by the other format modifiers.                |
   +---------+----------------------------------------------------------+

The available presentation types for :class:`complex` are same as for
:class:`float`.  Both real and imaginary components of a complex number are

> formatted as floating-point numbers, accordingly specified presentaion type.

Reviewer: Typo in "presentation". Also, I think this should be "are formatted as floating-point numbers, according to the specified presentation type."

> They separated by mandatory sign of the imaginary part, terminated by ``j``

Reviewer: Should be "They are separated by the mandatory sign of the ...".

> suffix.  If presentation type is missing --- result match the output of

Reviewer: Should be "the result will match".

> :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by round parentheses, if real part is

Reviewer 2: Assuming that by 'round parentheses' you mean the `()` characters, then 'round' is unnecessary. `()` are the only symbols named 'parentheses'.

There _is_ some ambiguity for other enclosures, though, so the reflex to include the shape adjective makes sense:

 - `{}` -- 'braces', 'curly braces', or 'curly brackets'
 - `[]` -- 'brackets', 'square brackets' or (rarely) 'square braces'
 - `<>` -- 'angle brackets'

> :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by round parentheses, if real part is

Author: Ok, lets keep your suggestion:
```suggestion
:func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by parentheses, if real part is
```
This pr was approved, so I'll not commit it.

FYI, current wording was copied from the complex type docs: https://docs.python.org/3.14/library/functions.html#complex

Reviewer: I think removing "round" is a good change.

Reviewer 2: Ah, @skirpichev, indeed -- sorry for dropping that unnecessary explainer on you!

> --- the result will match the output of :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by

Reviewer: What are the "---" for?

Author: Hmm, probably ',' is better, indeed.

> imaginary part, terminated by ``j`` suffix.  If presentation type is missing
> --- the result will match the output of :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by

Author: ```suggestion
imaginary part, terminated by ``j`` suffix.  If presentation type is missing,
the result will match the output of :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by
```

> The available presentation types for :class:`complex` are same as for
> :class:`float`.  Both real and imaginary components of a complex number are
> formatted as floating-point numbers, accordingly specified presentaion type.
> They separated by mandatory sign of the imaginary part, terminated by ``j``
> suffix.  If presentation type is missing --- result match the output of
> :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by round parentheses, if real part is
> non-zero), altered by other format modifiers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The available presentation types for :class:`complex` are the same as for
:class:`float`. The real and imaginary components of a complex number are
formatted as floating-point numbers, according to the presentation type.
They are separated by a mandatory sign of the imaginary part suffixed by ``j``.
If the presentation type is not specified, the result matches the output of
:func:`str` (numbers are surrounded by round parentheses if the real part is
non-zero), possibly altered by other format modifiers.
```

Author: Does make sense for me, but I would prefer to avoid examples, as for other format types.

Reviewer 3: I've updated the suggestion.

> parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format modifiers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The available presentation types for :class:`complex` are the same as those for
:class:`float` (``'%'`` is not allowed).  Both the real and imaginary components
of a complex number are formatted as floating-point numbers, according to the
specified presentation type.  They are separated by the mandatory sign of the
imaginary part, the latter being terminated by a ``j`` suffix.  If the presentation
type is missing, the result will match the output of :func:`str` (complex numbers with
a non-zero real part are also surrounded by parentheses), possibly altered by
other format modifiers.
```

   |         | as altered by the other format modifiers.                |
   +---------+----------------------------------------------------------+

The available presentation types for :class:`complex` are same as for
:class:`float` (``'%'`` is not allowed).  Both real and imaginary components of
a complex number are formatted as floating-point numbers, according to the
specified presentation type.  They are separated by the mandatory sign of the
imaginary part, terminated by ``j`` suffix.  If presentation type is missing
--- the result will match the output of :func:`str` (numbers also surrounded by

> round parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format

Reviewer: I don't think we typically say "round parentheses", so please just use "parentheses".

Author: FYI: This wording come from complex() constructor docs.

> round parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format

Author: ```suggestion
parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format
```

> parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format
> modifiers.

Author: ```suggestion
parentheses, if real part is non-zero), altered by other format modifiers.
```
